# Step 1 - Installing Webpack

1. Webpack is an npm package, so we need to install it. Webpack also comes with a CLI tool (command line tool), so we will install that as well.
```
npm i webpack webpack-cli
```

You have been successful when you see webpack and webpack-cli added to your package.json dependencies

2. Get the basic webpack config up and running:

- [ ] Create a webpack.config.js file in the project root
- [ ] Add the new build npm script to your package.json ``` "build": "webpack" ```
- [ ] Fill your webpack config.js with the code below:

```
const path = require("path") 
const webpack = require('webpack')

module.exports = {

}
```

You have been successful when you can run your npm script in the terminal and see a webpack error (the error is there of course because our config file is empty)

# Step 2 - Webpack Entry 

1. Webpack is going to create a map of our app dependencies, but to make a map you need to start somewhere. In our webpack config, we can declare a starting point for our app. To do this, we need to add this line to the module.exports of our webpack config

```
entry: './src/client/index.js',
```

2. Create a new index.js file at the address above. For now, it can be mostly empty, with just an alert.

3. Experiment by running the webpack build script(`npm run build`). Take a look at the dist folder that appears after a successful webpack build.


**You have been successful when you see a dist folder in the root of your app**

*Some miscellanious notes:*

- If you run webpack build and in your text editor you see the dist folder, but nothing inside it - it might still be working. Some text editors will hide folders or folder contents like ```dist```. Yeah... that one didn't have me second guessing myself for like 20 min...

****# Step 3 - Webpack Output

The “output” of webpack is the distribution folder. It is where webpack drops or “outputs” the neat bundles of assets it creates from the individual files we point it to.

We have setup webpack just enough to be performing the most basic function of webpack - creating a dist folder with a main.js file from our entry point. And all of that is great - but none of it is useful yet.

What’s wrong? Let’s take a look:

- The main.js file of our distribution folder contains none of the javascript or other assets we wrote for our webpage.
- The distribution folder has no connection whatsoever to our app. If you start the express server, our app is still functioning exactly the same way it did in part 0.

1. Add our client/js file contents into dist/main.js


2. Create a new index.js file at the address above. For now, it can be mostly empty, with just an alert.




**You have been successful when you see a dist folder in the root of your app**

*Some miscellanious notes:*

- If you run webpack build and in your text editor you see the dist folder, but nothing inside it - it might still be working. Some text editors will hide folders or folder contents like ```dist```. Yeah... that one didn't have me second guessing myself for like 20 min...

# Step 4 - Webpack Plugins

## Part 1

Let’s install a plugin. The first one we’re going to install is called HtmlWebPackPlugin. This plugin will create an html file and allow us to create dynamic references to our bundled files.

```
npm i -D html-webpack-plugin
```


Most plugins need to be required at the top of our webpack config file, so we need to add this line:


```
const HtmlWebPackPlugin = require("html-webpack-plugin")
```

Then we need to set up the plugin add this section to the module.exports portion of the config file:

```
plugins: [
    new HtmlWebPackPlugin({
        template: "./src/client/views/index.html",
        filename: "./index.html",
    })
]
```

Remove your dist folder and rebuild.


**You have been successful when you see an index.html file in your dist folder**

## Part 2

This new set up changes a few things.

First, we might as well remove all other references to scripts in our html file - because webpack is going to add them for us.

You might also have caught on to the other thing we need to change. A very important shift has taken place now that webpack is generating an html file for us - we have two html files, so which one is our user going to see when we run the server?

Our user will still see our html file at client/views/index.js - because that is still what express is told to serve. In order to use the new html file being generated by webpack, we have to tell express to serve that file. Go to your server/index.js file and change the home route to this:

app.get('/', function (req, res) {
    res.sendFile('dist/index.html')
})

See how the file we are sending back from express is now the index.html file inside of dist? That is what we want. But we ought to carry this even further. Express was set up to find other assets as well - it expected all our css and js files to come from the client folder. But that won’t be the case any more, our assets are all going to be handled by webpack, so they are all going to come from the dist folder, so change this line:

app.use(express.static('src/client'))
to
app.use(express.static('dist'))

**You have been successful when can run your express server and see our web page with no styles**